AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBALTIMORE — The Baltimore Orioles are finally riding another winning streak, five weeks after their last one.Adam Jones homered, scored three runs and had three RBIs, and Baltimore outslugged the Kansas City Royals 11-6 Thursday night.Manny Machado and Trey Mancini also went deep for the Orioles, who trailed 4-0 in the first inning and 6-3 in the second before rallying to beat the Royals for the second night in a row. The only other time Baltimore (10-27) won successive games this season was April 5-6 at Yankee Stadium."Obviously, we've got a long way to go. We know that," Mancini said. "You just try to string some wins together and maybe be in a decent spot."The Orioles had seven extra-base hits and eclipsed their previous season high of eight runs by the fourth inning.That was enough to overcome another awful start by Chris Tillman, who yielded six runs and got only four outs. With a 1-5 record and a 10.46 ERA, his time in the rotation — or on the roster — may be coming to an end."Same challenges he's had: stuff was a little short and command was short. That's a bad combination," manager Buck Showalter said. "It's tough to watch him struggle like that, especially with the success he's had in the past."Tillman was 16-6 in 2016 and is 2-12 since."I'm just not getting it done. It's not good right now," he said.Miguel Castro (1-1) replaced Tillman and blanked Kansas City over 4 2/3 innings, his longest outing of the season."Castro came in and neutralized us," Kansas City manager Ned Yost said.Salvador Perez hit a grand slam for the Royals, who were seeking their second series win of the year."We had a good first inning with the grand slam, and I said, 'Here we go,'" Yost said.By the fourth inning, Kansas City trailed 9-6.Ian Kennedy (1-4) gave up eight hits, including three home runs. The nine runs he allowed were the second-most of his career."The guys scored a bunch of runs for me and I can't hold it," the right-hander said. "I'm really disappointed."After starting Tuesday night's game at Camden Yards with a 10-run first inning, the Royals settled for a four-run first in the finale. A single and two walks set the table for Perez, who ripped an 0-2 pitch from Tillman over the right-field scoreboard. Machado connected with a man on in the bottom half to make it 4-3, but Tillman gave up a two-run single by Jorge Soler in the second, prompting his early exit.Jones hit a two-run shot in the third to get Baltimore to 6-5, and the Orioles completed the comeback in the fourth.After Chance Sisco doubled in two runs, Mancini followed with his fourth home run.TRAINER'S ROOMRoyals: CF Abraham Almonte did not play because he was still experiencing symptoms of the illness that caused him to be removed from Wednesday night's game. ... RHP Justin Grimm (back stiffness) threw a bullpen session and could start a rehab assignment next week, Yost said.Orioles: DH Pedro Alvarez hurt his hamstring on the bases and was replaced in the fifth inning. ... An MRI on RHP Darren O'Day's hyperextended elbow was "remarkably clean," Showalter said. There is no indication yet whether O'Day can come off the DL when eligible on May 16. ... INF Engelb Vielma fractured his kneecap when he tripped over the bullpen mound while chasing a foul ball in a minor league game. Vielma played in six games with Baltimore this season.HAPPY BIRTHDAYPerez hit his second career grand slam on his 28th birthday . He is the 16th different KC player to homer on his birthday, and only the second to hit a slam. Mike Sweeney did it on July 22, 2004.UP NEXTRoyals: Still looking for his first win, Jason Hammel (0-4, 4.78 ERA) makes his eighth start of the year Friday night as KC opens a three-game series in Cleveland.Orioles: Kevin Gausman (2-2, 3.30) helps Baltimore open a four-game series against the visiting Tampa Bay Rays on Friday night. The right-hander has lowered his ERA in each of his last six starts.___More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseballAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS