AdvertisementSupported byBy Helene Cooper, Thomas Gibbons-Neff and Eric SchmittWASHINGTON — A Defense Department investigation of a Special Forces mission in Niger released Thursday found widespread problems across all levels of the military operation, but concludes that “no single failure or deficiency” led to the deaths of four American soldiers who were among a team of Green Berets ambushed last fall by fighters aligned with the Islamic State.The unclassified executive summary of the investigation offers only a glimpse of the decisions and actions that led to the firefight on Oct. 4 after the 11-man team searched, unsuccessfully, for a local militant leader in western Niger.Most Americans were unaware that Army Green Berets were in Niger until after the soldiers, their interpreter and four Nigerien troops were killed. Their deaths set off a fierce debate over secretive military missions under murky authorities in remote and far-flung battlegrounds.Members of Congress questioned how their mission helped protect the United States, and a political storm ignited over how families of fallen troops should be treated by their commander in chief after President Trump struggled to comfort one of the widows.[Read The Times’s reconstruction of what happened in Niger.]Senior military officials at the Pentagon on Thursday outlined the gun battle in painful detail, carefully explaining how the four American soldiers — Sgt. First Class Jeremiah W. Johnson, Staff Sgt. Bryan C. Black, Staff Sgt. Dustin M. Wright and Sgt. La David Johnson — had died.Even as it found “individual, organizational and institutional” mistakes, the investigation also revealed heroic efforts by a small group of soldiers who were battered and outnumbered as they braced to take a last stand against a barrage of heavy machine gunfire and mortar rounds.Were it not for the arrival of French Mirage aircraft that made low, roaring passes in a show of force that scattered the extremists, far more Americans and their Nigerien partners likely would have been killed in what, ultimately, was the largest loss of United States troops during combat in Africa since the 1993 “Black Hawk Down” debacle in Somalia.“Nigerien and French units assisted without hesitation,” according to the investigation’s eight-page executive summary that the Pentagon released on Thursday. It said the allied forces “very likely saved the lives of U.S. and Nigerien soldiers, several of whom were wounded in the attack.”The full report of the investigation, which was headed by the United States Africa Command and is more than 6,000 pages, remains classified. The Pentagon plans to release a redacted version of the full report some months from now.The investigation found that the Green Beret team had not undergone key training as a unit before it deployed to Niger that fall because of “personnel turnover” and had not rehearsed its counterterrorism mission before leaving their base in Ouallam, Niger, on Oct. 3. It said two junior officers had “mischaracterized” the mission in a required planning document filed before the American soldiers departed.And it found that wounded soldiers — at least two Americans and three Nigeriens — were not evacuated from the attack site for more than four hours, far longer than the Pentagon previously acknowledged.But the executive summary did not directly address why the team was relatively unequipped, including traveling in an unarmored S.U.V. that was not carrying a mounted machine gun. It did not specifically fault stark failures by the Army, the United States Africa Command and the Special Forces community for fatal gaps in training and oversight.More than 16 years after 9/11 spurred a broad fight against terrorism, some Americans say it’s time to look at how the country is deploying its forces.The summary also did not acknowledge that the Army officer who oversaw the inquiry, Maj. Gen. Roger L. Cloutier Jr., is a senior official in Africa Command — the same command he investigated. General Cloutier last month was promoted to head all Army forces in Africa.Arnold Wright, the father of Sergeant Wright, suggested on Thursday that the public report was, at best, incomplete and expressed frustration and disappointment that so much of the investigation remained classified.An executive summary, he said in a telephone interview with The New York Times, was all the military could make public “without this thing blowing up into a firestorm,” and he suggested that senior officials were trying to protect their reputations.[Get international, politics and Washington news delivered to your inbox every morning with the Morning Briefing newsletter.]“They had their story, and they’re going to stick to it,” said Mr. Wright, a former soldier himself who received a briefing from military officials before the summary was released. “It doesn’t really matter what I’ve got to say. They did what they did for political reasons. I understand it, but it doesn’t mean it’s right.”The narrative of what happened in the African scrub in October has shifted several times.The executive summary said the Green Beret unit, known as Operational Detachment-Alpha Team 3212, departed from its base on a counterterrorism mission in the vicinity of Tiloa, Niger. It was accompanied by a unit of 30 Nigerien forces and targeted a local Islamic State “key member,” Doundoun Cheffou, who is suspected of helping in the kidnapping in Mali of an American aid worker, Jeffery Woodke.The investigation found that the leader of Team 3212, Capt. Michael Perozeni, described the mission in a planning document only as a daylong trip to meet with tribal elders in Tiloa. Such missions are considered low risk, do not need approval from senior commanders and generally are undertaken without additional support for protection, such as air reconnaissance.Counterterror missions of assault forces, by contrast, including so-called “kill-or-capture” operations, would have to have been ordered by senior military officers since they require reconnaissance and backup forces.American surveillance planes were scanning the area around Tiloa, looking for evidence of Mr. Cheffou, as Team 3212 made its way north from Ouallam. Directed to turn its sights farther north, the surveillance aircraft found Mr. Cheffou at a desert campsite just two-and-a-half miles south of Niger’s border with Mali.Another junior officer back at the base, also a captain, reported the discovery to a higher commander, according to the executive summary. The commander, a lieutenant colonel based in Chad, ordered Team 3212 to shift its mission from Tiloa and pursue Mr. Cheffou as a backup for an assault force that would be flying in from Arlit, in central Niger.Although bad weather prevented the assault force from flying in, the lieutenant colonel ordered Team 3212 “to execute the mission,” according to the executive summary of the investigation. The colonel was within his authority to do so, the summary said, and he regularly updated his own commanders as the mission progressed.Therefore, a chain of senior officials — the summary does not identify them by name or rank — was aware of the orders to leave Team 3212 out in the field overnight, much farther away and longer than they had expected to be from their base.Had it changed missions, as the executive summary stated, the team would have been required to transmit new routes to commanders — in part to be protected with medical evacuation support or other assistance if needed. Team 3212’s communications would have been tethered to a base in Niamey, Niger’s capital; its location would have been tracked through the chain of command, from Niger to a Special Operations forces colonel in Stuttgart, Germany.There is no mention in the summary of what steps, if any, commanders took to protect Team 3212. It concluded that the mission was vulnerable from the start because of the misleading planning document that Captain Perozeni filed before leaving Ouallam, which the summary said “contributed to a general lack of situational awareness and command oversight at every echelon.”Captain Perozeni was not identified by name in the executive summary of the investigation and attempts to reach him for comment have been unsuccessful. Before he left the base in Ouallam, according to two Defense Department officials who have been briefed on the investigation’s classified findings and spoke on condition of anonymity, Captain Perozeni had warned his immediate superior that Team 3212 did not have the equipment or intelligence necessary to carry out a kill-or-capture raid against Mr. Cheffou.As it turned out, Mr. Cheffou had already left the desert encampment by the time Team 3212 arrived, the summary said. As the soldiers headed back to base, they stopped for water in the nearby village of Tongo Tongo.Moments after leaving the village, at 11:40 a.m. on Oct. 4, the eight-vehicle convoy of American and Nigerien forces was ambushed and overpowered by militants linked to the Islamic State and who operated freely in the area. Investigators found no proof they were alerted to the convoy by villagers.The executive summary described the ensuing firefight in dramatic but careful detail.Initially, Captain Perozeni and a Nigerien commander on the mission sought to surround the Islamic State fighters on several sides, but failed as the extremists counterattacked. Captain Perozeni ordered his team to fall back.They threw smoke grenades to hide their withdrawal; five of the vehicles made it out of the immediate area. Sergeant Jeremiah Johnson acknowledged the orders to escape with a “thumbs up,” according to the summary.But the black utility vehicle that he was in — along with Sergeant Wright and Sergeant Black — remained behind, along with two Nigerien trucks.The New York Times has previously reported that Sgt. Jeremiah Johnson captured the next several minutes of the firefight on video with a camera affixed to his helmet. The video showed Sergeant Wright driving the unarmored vehicle, half slouched behind the dashboard, trying to evade incoming fire. Sergeant Jeremiah Johnson and Sergeant Black did what they could to protect the S.U.V., now on its own.All three soldiers were killed and the militants stripped at least two of the soldiers of their equipment. Footage from Sgt. Jeremiah Johnson’s camera was taken and, months later, distributed by the Islamic State in a propaganda video.Meanwhile, the other five vehicles in the convoy sped south for just under half a mile before realizing that the rest of the team was missing, according to the investigation’s executive summary. Hoping to find them, four American soldiers headed back to the initial ambush site. The others, including 25 Nigerien soldiers, remained behind, trying to take cover while firing at the still-attacking militants.For the second time, Captain Perozeni ordered his team to fall back. He and Sgt. First Class Brent Bartels were wounded as the vehicle sped away, as were three Nigerien troops. One Nigerien was killed.Pursued by militants, they drove north until they were stuck in a swamp. For the first time since Team 3212 initially reported being under attack — a time span that the executive summary clocked at 53 minutes — the driver of the vehicle radioed indicating that the soldiers were about to be overrun by enemy forces.The summary does not say whether any American military officers tried to contact Team 3212 during the firefight. Military communications in Niger often rely on satellite radios and phones, and the sheer distance between American troops in the field and their headquarters makes the process difficult.Sgt. La David Johnson, an Army mechanic by trade, was a driver of one of Team 3212’s trucks. When Captain Perozeni gave the second order to retreat, Sergeant La David Johnson was lying near his vehicle, pinned down by heavy fire and unable to get back into the driver’s seat, according to the summary.Sergeant La David Johnson and two Nigeriens troops fled on foot, running west. The two Nigeriens were killed. Sergeant La David Johnson ran for just over half a mile, then took cover behind a tree, firing his rifle until he was surrounded by militants, who killed him.The group of four American soldiers who had gone back to the ambush site to look for the missing vehicle rejoined Captain Perozeni and the small band of Americans and Nigeriens. By then, the summary said, they realized Sergeant La David Johnson was also missing.“The enemy forces began engaging them with heavy machine gun and mortar fire, forcing them to withdraw,” the executive summary said. “The team members provided critical medical care to the wounded, and evaded to a wooded area west of the ambush site.”There, the summary said, they “established a final defensive position, where they prepared to make their last stand.”The arrival of French Mirage fighter jets overhead likely saved their lives, according to the executive summary. The jets did not fire on the battle for fear of striking the American or allied Nigerien forces. But they made four low passes over the attack site, and scattered the militants.Hours after the ambush began, around 5:15 p.m., French forces evacuated the surviving members of Team 3212 in two helicopters. The remains of Sergeant Jeremiah Johnson, Sergeant Black and Sergeant Wright were transferred to American custody by Nigerien forces at 7 p.m., the summary said.Two days later, the remains of Sergeant La David Johnson were found.The executive summary of the investigation said no American soldiers were captured alive, and all four had died quickly, if not immediately. They “gave their last full measure of devotion to our country and died with honor while actively engaging the enemy,” the summary said.It did not recommend specific corrective action to avoid the confusion and lax oversight that contributed to the deaths.Instead, senior officials in the Army and at the Special Operations Command have 120 days to review and adjust training for Special Forces soldiers, and re-examine American troops’ role in joint counterterror missions with local forces. The head of Africa Command, Gen. Thomas D. Waldhauser, has already begun an overhaul of the process to plan and approve operations across the continent, the executive summary said.Defense Secretary Jim Mattis also has shared the investigation’s findings with the Navy and Air Force so those services could take similar steps, the summary said, “to ensure this type of incident does not happen again.”Alan Blinder in Memphis and C.J. Chivers contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS