AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen Zraick and Virginia Lozano(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The shadow war between Israel and Iran in Syria has burst into the open.Israel’s foreign minister declared that his country’s forces had destroyed “nearly all” of Iran’s military infrastructure in Syria, in dozens of airstrikes.The strikes came after Israel reported an Iranian rocket attack on the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights — and amid drastically ramped up tensions in the region after the American withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal.Above, Lebanese soldiers with a rocket that landed in their territory. Here’s a quick synopsis of how the clash between the longtime foes suddenly escalated.____2. President Trump announced that his meeting with Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, is scheduled for June 12 in Singapore.Above, Mr. Trump welcomed back three American prisoners released by Mr. Kim. They landed in Maryland in the middle of the night, along with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who had traveled to Pyongyang to secure their release.The president spent the hours before their arrival in a celebratory mood. He mentioned in a cabinet meeting that “everyone thinks” he deserved the Nobel Peace Prize for overseeing the prisoners’ release.“But I would never say it,” Mr. Trump continued. “The prize I want is victory for the world.”____3. Rudy Giuliani, President Trump’s personal lawyer, abruptly resigned from his law firm, Greenberg Traurig.The firm announced on his departure, then promptly undercut his recent statements defending the president.Firm partners had chafed over Mr. Giuliani’s comments about payments that Michael Cohen made to silence Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress who has said she had an affair with Mr. Trump.Mr. Giuliani suggested that such payments were common at his firm, even without the knowledge of the clients. The firm denied that was the case.____4. Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, told colleagues she was close to resigning after President Trump berated her in front of the entire cabinet.Several current and former officials familiar with the incident said Mr. Trump criticized her for what he said was her failure to adequately secure the nation’s borders.Ms. Nielsen, above right with Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, has drafted a resignation letter but has not submitted it, according to two of the people.____5. We got an advance copy of the forthcoming memoir “The Restless Wave,” by Senator John McCain of Arizona.  His friend Lindsey Graham, a senator from South Carolina, said it should be “required reading for anyone who wants to lead in a democracy.”Mr. McCain is battling brain cancer, but he weighed in, via Twitter, on the confirmation hearing for Gina Haspel, the nominee for C.I.A. director. He wrote that her refusal to acknowledge that torture is immoral should disqualify her. (Above, Mr. McCain in Washington late last year.)But our Washington bureau reports that Ms. Haspel’s confirmation by the full Senate is all but certain. We discussed the hearing on our podcast “The Daily.”____6. A Defense Department investigation of a Special Forces mission in Niger found lots of problems in the operation, but concluded that “no single failure or deficiency” led to the deaths of four American soldiers.The soldiers, above, were among a group of Green Berets ambushed last fall by fighters aligned with the Islamic State.The investigation also revealed heroic efforts by a small team that was battered and outnumbered as it braced to take a last stand against a barrage of heavy machine-gun fire and mortar rounds.____7. Mahathir Mohamad, 92, was sworn in as Malaysia’s prime minister, defusing a potential constitutional crisis and ousting the coalition that had run the nation for decades.The election put a new focus on the country’s political system. Here’s a look at the central questions facing Malaysia, including the corruption accusations against Mr. Mahathir’s predecessor, Najib Razak.____8. An ominous development in voice-activated tech: Researchers in China and the U.S. can send hidden commands — that are undetectable to the human ear — to Apple’s Siri, Amazon’s Alexa and Google’s Assistant.Inside university labs, the researchers have been able to secretly activate the A.I. systems on smartphones and speakers.In the wrong hands, the technology could be used to unlock doors, wire money or buy stuff online — without the device’s owner even realizing it.____9. Justin Peck, the resident choreographer for the New York City Ballet, is trying to create dance that speaks to our everyday lives. He talked to The Times Magazine about how he approaches his craft, and where he hopes to take it.Mr. Peck is only 30, but he is already one of the most sought-after dance makers in the world. He’s currently part of a four-person interim team leading the company, and rumored to be in the running to become the company’s next director.____10. Finally, Samantha Bee railed against the prominent men in politics and media who have been accused of sexual misconduct of late.And she shared that she, too, had been the recipient of an unwanted advance from Charlie Rose. She said he planted an unwanted kiss on her lips — “with just a hint of tongue, like a turtle softly eating an apple core” — before she appeared on his show years ago.“The future is female,” Ms. Bee concluded. “Or at least it better be, because I am done with this [expletive].”Have a great night.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS