AdvertisementSupported byBy Nikita StewartAngela Castillo was tired of moving, and she was tired of the way she was being treated, like so many other people who enter New York City’s homeless shelter system.The shelter system can feel like a constant shuffle, and shelter residents often lash out at staff, share their frustrations with friends and family or quietly stew. But last July, when the city Department of Homeless Services directed Ms. Castillo and her four children to move for the second time to a third shelter in Brooklyn that would be much farther away from her children’s schools, she had had enough.So, Ms. Castillo, 34, went to court to challenge the transfer of her family out of the shelter in Bushwick where they had been living. With the help of her children’s father — who is also homeless and works as a paralegal — Ms. Castillo succeeded in persuading a judge to slow down the bureaucracy that dictates where homeless people will be placed. She also went to a local City Council member, Rafael L. Espinal Jr., who recognized that her plight captured the collective anger of many shelter residents. He drafted legislation to address it.What began as one woman’s fight has become much bigger. “They messed with the wrong people,” Mr. Espinal said of Ms. Castillo and Jose Castillo, her children’s father, whose name Ms. Castillo took though the couple never married.Mayor Bill de Blasio and Steven Banks, the commissioner of social services, have repeatedly espoused an ideal that people who become homeless should be placed in shelters in communities where they formerly lived, so they could stay close to their schools, churches, doctors and extended family. Those are the kinds of anchors that can lessen the pain of homelessness and help people get back on their feet and return to permanent housing.But the de Blasio administration has struggled to meet a goal to open 90 new shelters over five years in an effort to expand an inadequate shelter system that inhibits flexibility. Impeding logistics and community opposition have slowed openings. The city has opened 11 shelters and has announced six more locations.For now, shelter placements are often based on what’s available.Mr. Espinal’s bills are aimed at making immediate improvements to communication and the treatment of shelter residents. One bill would require the city to provide customer service training to staff of both the Department of Homeless Services and shelter providers under contract with the city. Another bill would require the city to publicly report the number of individuals and families transferred to shelters with notice of 72 hours or less and to provide the reasons for the transfers.Mr. Espinal introduced the bills in October at the end of last year’s legislative session, giving them little time to gain traction. He proposed the bills again on Wednesday. “Anyone of us could end up in the shelter system, and none of us should feel that the shelter system is working against us,” said Mr. Espinal, a Democrat who represents Bushwick, Brownsville, Cypress Hills and East New York.Ms. Castillo said she believed her recent transfer was retaliatory in response to her frequent complaints, an assertion that the homeless services agency denies. “This is degrading. You think, ‘This is not only you. This is not an isolated situation.’ There are people worse than me that are not fortunate to have someone to speak for them,” Ms. Castillo said.She is not alone in making the allegation of retaliation. Sam J. Miller, a spokesman for Picture the Homeless, an advocacy group led by homeless and formerly homeless people, said three members have recently received transfer orders after criticizing shelter conditions publicly, including in the media. In two cases where shelter providers ordered the transfers, Picture the Homeless contacted the city, which stopped the transfers, he said.Ms. Castillo, whose family became homeless after being evicted from their apartment in late 2014, said she has been arguing with homeless services staff and shelter providers since entering the system. Despite earning certificates to be a home health aide and a security guard since then, Ms. Castillo said she has not found a job she can balance with caring for 4-year-old twins, a 1-year-old and a 10-year-old.When she first entered the shelter system, Ms. Castillo asked for a transfer because the unit in East New York was rundown with a dirty refrigerator, roaches and rodents and had no hot water. She was immediately placed in a second shelter, the one in Bushwick where she would like to remain. But she complained last summer about needed repairs to a toilet, an electrical outlet and a refrigerator, among other problems.She said she was taken aback when the city responded by telling her to move. On a Saturday morning in July 2017, she received a polite email from a homeless services employee who wrote, “Please have your belongings packed and ready to go.”Ms. Castillo responded with emails asking why the city was taking such a “drastic route,” noting that she did not want to disturb her children’s schooling. Her twins attend a school within walking distance of the shelter, and her oldest child attends a sought-after charter school within close distance by public transportation. The following Monday, Ms. Castillo took action. With the help of Jose Castillo, she petitioned the State Supreme Court in Brooklyn for a temporary restraining order.Four days later, Ms. Castillo and the city came to a settlement agreement that she would stay in the building and that repairs would be made.It seemed as if Ms. Castillo had won, but in March of this year, the city ordered all shelter residents out of the building because of a gas leak. The move was supposed to be temporary, but nearly 10 weeks later, Ms. Castillo remains at a different shelter in Brownsville where she can no longer walk the twins to school and must take a 20-minute longer trip to her oldest child’s school.She recently took the city back to court, but the city successfully argued that it was not in contempt of the settlement agreement because the gas leak had necessitated an emergency evacuation. “Final fixes are being completed and we expect to reopen this location imminently,” said Isaac McGinn, a spokesman for homeless services.Ms. Castillo received notice on Thursday that she could return soon.Follow Nikita Stewart on Twitter: @kitastew.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS