AdvertisementSupported byBy Laurel GraeberOur guide to cultural events in New York City for children and teenagers happening this weekend and in the week ahead.CARNEGIE HALL FAMILY CONCERT: ‘MY CITY, MY SONG’ at Zankel Hall (May 12, noon and 3 p.m.). New York often seems to march to the beat of a different drum — many different drums. In this program, several talented residents will demonstrate the rich variety and vibrancy of the city’s musical heritage. Sofía Rei and Sofia Tosello will perform songs from the rural and urban cultures of their native Argentina. Martha Redbone will combine Native American music with African-American blues and funk. And Sbongiseni Duma, known as Bongi, and Tshidi Manye — you may have seen them both in “The Lion King” on Broadway, where Ms. Manye delivers the memorable opening incantation — will demonstrate the distinctive rhythms of Zulu tradition. Children can also do their own exploring in preconcert activities one hour before showtime. (Seats are limited.)212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgECOLOGICAL CITY at various locations in the East Village and on the Lower East Side (May 12, 11 a.m.-6 p.m.). You can encounter characters of all kinds on the streets of New York City, but how often do you get to march with river sprites, earth gods, garden spirits and various towering flora? They’ll be out in force for this extravaganza, more of a participatory pageant than a parade. Presented by Earth Celebrations, an environmental and arts nonprofit founded by Felicia Young, Ecological City employs mobile sculpture, giant puppets and costumed performers to celebrate conservation, sustainability and solutions to climate change. Starting at the Loisaida Inc. Center, the procession will spend the day offering theater, poetry, music and dance at various sites, ending with a river-cleansing ceremony at the waterfront in East River Park. (A full schedule is on the website; the rain date is Sunday.)212-777-7969, earthcelebrations.comKIDS FOOD FESTIVAL at the Oculus at Westfield World Trade Center (May 12-13, 10 a.m.-4 p.m.). Parents might wish that Dr. Seuss had extolled eating green vegetables instead of green eggs and ham. Cricket Azima does just that, though she doesn’t write amusing rhymes about broccoli and beans; she shows how to enjoy them in kid-friendly fare. The founder of the Creative Kitchen, which offers children’s cooking classes, Ms. Azima also established the annual Kids Food Festival. This weekend, it will host recipe demonstrations, including several by young contestants from the television series “MasterChef Junior”; entertainment (Suzi Shelton performs on Saturday); children’s yoga; and the balanced plate scavenger hunt, which sends little visitors to exhibits to collect information on healthy eating. Although those activities are free, the festival also presents ticketed classes in the James Beard Foundation Future Foodies Pavilion, where aspiring chefs can learn from experts. On the menu: dishes like chocolate-avocado pudding parfaits and seasonal pasta salad.kidsfoodfestival.comMEET THE FLEDGLINGS WITH THE WILD BIRD FUND at the DiMenna Children’s History Museum, New-York Historical Society (May 12, 2 p.m.). Touching a baby bird is usually a privilege enjoyed only by its parents. Once a year, however, the Wild Bird Fund, a Manhattan nonprofit that tends to injured and orphaned members of the avian population (and the occasional small mammal), visits this museum, offering close-up interactions with some of its small patients. Held in conjunction with the exhibition “Feathers: Fashion and the Fight for Wildlife,” the program will open with a presentation on the city’s winged residents and their rehabilitation. Then children — they must be at least 5 to participate — will be invited to help feed the fledglings under close supervision.212-873-3400, nyhistory.orgN.Y.C. WILDFLOWER DAY at Stuyvesant Cove Park (May 12, 10 a.m.-1 p.m.). New York City has more than eight million people — yet fewer than 800 kinds of native plants. Children will learn about these indigenous species and how to conserve them at this free event, part of the many N.Y.C. Wildflower Week celebrations. Presented by Solar One, the green-energy education center, the activities will include digging in the soil and a compost heap to see what lives there, making take-home nesting habitats for native bees out of bundled plant stems, and building an entirely peaceful environmental weapon: wildflower seed bombs. Made of clay or other absorbent material, these bombs are more like cocoons, protecting and hydrating their contents until the seeds can germinate and break free. (Reservations, which you can get by emailing murphy@solar1.org, are advised.)646-576-5664, solar1.org‘OLIVE & PEARL’ at the BAM Fisher Hillman Studio (May 12-14, 11 a.m.; May 15, 10 and 11:30 a.m.). Arthritis isn’t a problem for Granny Pearl; she kicks up her heels and does the jig with her young granddaughter, Olive, in this dance-theater piece from Treehouse Shakers. Written and directed by Mara McEwin and choreographed by Emily Bunning, the production invites its intended audience — children ages 2 through 5 — into the characters’ cloth home, where Olive and Pearl have a pretend encounter with fairies and take an imaginary journey to the moon. Several puppets join their adventures, which unfold to Anthony Rizzo’s score, inspired by bluegrass and Irish fiddle tunes. Saturday’s show will be followed by an optional family puppetry workshop (a separate fee is required), and Tuesday’s performances will be relaxed versions, geared toward children on the autism spectrum or with sensory-processing difficulties.212-715-1914, treehouseshakers.com[STARTUP]: OPEN HOUSE/OPEN STUDIOS at the Art Students League of New York (May 12, 11 a.m.-3 p.m.). This isn’t just an open house; it’s a house birthday party. The venerable Art Students League has occupied its Midtown Manhattan headquarters for 125 years, and it is honoring the building’s anniversary with STartUP, an entire weekend of events. Saturday’s programs are family-friendly, with a wide variety of workshops. Drawing and Mixed Media for Kids will accept participants as young as 3, while Art for Animation and Make Your Own Graphic Novel are for those 12 and older. Several classes, like Clay for Beginners and Live Sketch for Kids, are tailored to children 6 and older. And everyone is invited to Live! Street Art Like You’ve Never Seen It, a chance to watch league-affiliated artists use West 57th Street as their studio.212-247-4510, theartstudentsleague.org/startupAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS