AdvertisementSupported byWhen you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Ben BrantleyMany multisyllabled words have been used to describe the Wooster Group, the long-reigning avant-gardists of downtown New York. Iconoclastic, deconstructionist, post-modernistic and futuristic are among the more common, if not always accurate, adjectives.But sentimental? Surely not.Yet as is made clear by the troupe’s exquisite “A Pink Chair (In Place of a Fake Antique),” which opened on Wednesday night at the Performing Garage in SoHo, the Wooster Group is among the most profound sentimentalists working in theater today. That is not to say the team has gone soppy on us.In this latest performance piece, created by the company and directed by Elizabeth LeCompte, the Woosterites seem positively Proustian in their search of lost time. Or to be specific, a lost play, evocatively titled “I Shall Never Return,” written by the great Polish auteur Tadeusz Kantor (1915-1990).Staged in New York at La MaMa in 1988, with Kantor as the show’s leading actor as well as director, “I Shall Never Return” does exist today in archival forms, including as a text and at least partially on film. But as a complete and self-contained work of art, performed as it was meant to be performed? No, as is always the case with live theater, you had to be there, then.As Dorota Krakowska, Kantor’s daughter and the dramaturge on a “A Pink Chair,” puts it, “Other art stays, like painting or sculpture or books. Theater goes away.”So with the assistance of Ms. Krakowska and the Cricoteka in Krakow, Poland, where Kantor’s archives are stored, the Wooster Group is conducting a séance of sorts, hoping to raise a flickering apparition of what was. That its success in this regard is only, necessarily, partial does not mean that the experiment is a failure.The original “I Shall Never Return” was appropriately itself a ghost story, a brooding farewell by Kantor to the characters he created as a theater artist. “They have traveled with me a long time,” he wrote in the play’s script, “and gradually left me at various roads and stops. Now we are to meet here, perhaps for the last time.”The “here” in which “A Pink Chair” (which was seen as part of the Bard SummerScape festival last year) takes place is not just the Performing Garage. It is also the Warsaw studio where the work was recorded by the filmmaker Andrzej Sapija, fragments of which ripple on video screens and are replicated by live performers.Of more paramount importance, though, is the boxlike area indicated by a trapezoidal drawing of a room, which is periodically projected both by itself and as a frame for other images. This geometric figure would seem to be much like what the international stage artist Peter Brook described in his 1968 book, “The Empty Space,” as “any space in which theater takes place.”But how on earth is it possible to conjure up what once filled that mutable space in real time, when that time has passed? This deeply wistful question has informed much of the Wooster Group’s work during the past decade or so.That includes a 2007 production that sought to recreate Richard Burton’s fabled 1964 performance in the title role of “Hamlet.” Even in its early days, when the company was perceived as bunch of hooligan hipsters wreaking havoc with classics like “Our Town,” the Wooster Group wasn’t just being smart-alecky. Questions about how perceptions of art change over time — and how difficult it is to fully imagine a work’s initial impact — were always central to this company’s creative dynamic.“A Pink Chair,” like much Wooster art, mixes media with calculated abandon. Sophisticated digital, video and audio technology is deployed to create a constant, ever-shifting dialogue between the live performers and video sequences.There is home-movie-ish footage of the Wooster’s longtime leading lady Kate Valk interviewing Ms. Krakowska. And when scenes from the film of “I Shall Never Return” are projected, the cast members — including Zbigniew Bzymek as “Man in the Place of Kantor,” a wonderfully lurid Ms. Valk as a slatternly barmaid, Jim Fletcher as a spidery priest and Ari Fliakos as an innkeeper and, later, Odysseus — become stylized, gesture-for-gesture facsimiles of the figures onscreen.Many of these figures were inspired by real people in Kantor’s life, although to what degree is always hazy. Kantor regularly blurred the lines between living and dead and, more literally, between living actors and immobile mannequins.This confusion is reflected and amplified in “A Pink Chair,” suggesting animate beings metamorphosing into statues, with the quicksilver humanity of theater freezing into a gallery of relics. It comes as a relief that the show ends not with the silence of the grave but with a performance of the hymn “Bound for the Promised Land.”One of several musical numbers in the show, this one merges the ensemble into an old-fashioned, neo-Victorian tableau that brings to mind the brave crew of a pioneering ship. It also includes a simple but stunning bit of video trompe-l’oeil.At some point, you’ll probably be able to see photographs or a film of this climactic moment. But believe me, the full magic is in being there, as a vivid scene melts into your memory even before it ends.When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed play or musical through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.This information was last updated on May 10, 2018AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS