AdvertisementSupported byCurrent Events ConversationBy Katherine SchultenIt’s mid-May, it’s beautiful out, and your students are restless. One solution: Hand them The New York Times.Next, ask them each to pick one article — any article, for any reason — read it, and tell us in the comments here why they chose it. If they do, we’ll publish the best of what we get in this column next Thursday.Consider it practice for our Ninth Annual Summer Reading Contest, when teenagers all over the world are invited to do exactly that, any week from June 15 to Aug. 24.To inspire you, we reached out to a few teachers we’ve gotten to know who often allow their students free choice when they work with The Times in class.Thank you to Sarah Gross at High Technology High School in Lincroft, N.J.; Karen Gold of The Governor’s Academy, Byfield, Mass.; Cynthia Honeycutt at Walhalla High School in Walhalla, S.C.; Chris Roth from Folsom Elementary School District in Folsom, N.J.; and Brett Vogelsinger of Holicong Middle School in Doylestown, Pa., who simply asked their students, quoted below, what they’d recommend to others right now. (We also heard from a sixth grader, Julia Sprung, who goes to the Kinneret Day School and reads The Times at home.)So please invite your students to enjoy any of the 17 fascinating pieces below, and then find their own articles — and tell us why they chose them. They should post those picks here, in the comments, through May 16._________1. I Went Naked to a Museum, and It Was … Revealing: Unanimous choice, Sarah Gross’s English I, Section 2 class.Why? Duh: “It’s a naked museum!” The students also added, “Apparently, some people think that they can connect better with art if they remove all the barriers between them and the art. Like clothes. But how do you go to a museum and take off your clothes around strangers?!”2. The American Dilemma: Why Do We Still Watch Football? “I read this article and learned that as a society, we find it hard to watch football for all the violence, but we continue watch it to support our favorite team and players.” — Carter Bailey, Folsom Elementary School District3. Why Parts of Beijing Look Like a Devastated War Zone:“I picked this article because, born to a family of constant migrants, I’ve learned one thing from our immigrant experience: what we fear the most isn’t danger or destitution, but hopelessness.” — Tianyu M. Fang, The Governor’s Academy4. Never Solved, a College Dorm Fire Has Become One Man’s Obsession:“This type of article is my favorite, it is one that I can go into with no previous knowledge, and come out being able to recount the events described to my peers. I also like to read about mysteries and try to come up with my own conclusions, and I think it is interesting to share the stories with my friends and see what they might have to say.” — Randy Parris, Walhalla High School5. The Boys Are Not All Right:“I really enjoyed how the writer, Michael Ian Black, structured this piece. The subject of the article is also something that I think our society labels as taboo. Michael Ian Black was not afraid to say what he meant, and that made the article so much better. His voice and journalistic fortitude were the backbone of this piece.” — Catherine Both, Holicong Middle School6. Real Men Get Rejected, Too:“Moises Velasquez-Manoff writes about how men are faced with unrealistic expectations of masculinity in this society. This stance has resonated with me, allowing me to consider what young men have been raised to believe before condemning them as 'despicable' or 'loathsome.'” — Meg Fischer, Walhalla High School7. The Nurse Who Took a Very Different Route to 2nd Place in the Boston Marathon:“Big sporting events seem too far-fetched for normal people to be a part of, but this story makes the Boston Marathon more relatable because the nurse who came in 2nd place was not a professional.” — Isaac Buckman, High Tech High School8. Review: Whose ‘Fair Lady’? This Time, Eliza’s in Charge:“The review truly brought the play to life and I felt as if I was watching it.” — Julia Sprung, Kinneret Day School (She also recommends How This Teenager Landed a Met Gala Dress Design Gig.)9. Needle by Needle, a Heroin Crisis Grips California’s Rural North:“I chose this article because no matter where you reside in America, there seems to be no escaping the rampant drug epidemic and we need to understand why this is happening.” — Alex DiBlasi, The Governor’s Academy10. Birds Beware: The Praying Mantis Wants Your Brain:“It’s just cool! Plus being able to eat something twice as big as itself is crazy.” — Deep Gopani, High Tech High School11. A Courageous Trump Call on a Lousy Deal:“Reading Bret Stephen’s opinion piece was a pleasant surprise — his strong denunciation of the Deal stands in sharp contrast to other pieces that are almost uniformly in favor of keeping it.” — Jason Ho, The Governor’s Academy12. Kidnapped as Schoolgirls by Boko Haram: Here They Are Now:Eight students at Walhalla High School chose this piece. “Before I read this article, I did not know much about this issue. After reading it, I was heartbroken, but also inspired. The pictures caused much emotion because it was like the women were interacting with you as you read,” wrote Megan Ranalli. Her classmate Gracie Powell called it “one of the best articles I have ever read.”13. In Australia, Arsonists May Have Wings:“The idea of arsonist birds in general is interesting. When we think of birds we don’t think of them using tools to aid them.” — Caleb Thorpe, High Tech High School14. Attacking the ‘Woke’ Black Vote“This called attention to a group being hypocritical and I appreciated that he was brutally honest with them, and told them what it was they were doing wrong. Especially with the article coming from an African American man, I admired his resolve to stand up against the crowd.” — Avery McCall, Walhalla High School15. Lacrosse Casts Its Net Farther From the Coast, and Pulls In New Recruits“It’s an article about lacrosse and how fast the sport is growing. I found it interesting because I didn’t know that lacrosse was growing that quickly!” — Jaime DiMatteo, Folsom Elementary School District16. Marijuana Can Save Lives“Although I may not agree with everything it says, this article certainly got me thinking about the use of medical marijuana in the fight against the opioid crisis that plagues the nation.” — Elliot Wechter, Walhalla High School17. The Sublime and Scary Future of Cameras With A.I. Brains:“As technology is developing it’s important to know what is happening with technology we use everyday. This article shows you the benefits of AI in cameras, but also points out some scary things to think about.” — Oreoluwa Alao, High Tech High SchoolAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS